Tanzu Application Platform Deployment Guide (#76)
vmware-tanzu-labs/tanzu-validated-solutions: src/deployment-guides/tap.md

# Tanzu Application Platform Deployment Guide

## Executive Summary

This deployment guide outlines the deployment steps for VMware Tanzu Application Platform on a Kubernetes workload cluster. In accordance with the [Tanzu Application Platform Reference Design](../reference-designs/tap-architecture-planning.md), four clusters will be created:

* Tanzu Application Platform Build Cluster 
* Tanzu Application Platform Run Cluster 
* Tanzu Application Platform View Cluster 
* Tanzu Application Platform Iterate Cluster 

## Prerequisites

Before deploying VMware Tanzu Application Platform, ensure that the following prerequisites are met:

* A [Tanzu Network](https://network.tanzu.vmware.com/) account is available for downloading Tanzu Application Platform packages.
* A container image registry with push and write access (such as Harbor, Docker Hub, or Azure Container Registry) is available. This will be used for application images and runtime dependencies.
* Network access to [VMware's image registry](https://registry.tanzu.vmware.com) is available.
<!-- /* cSpell:disable */ -->

> * DNS Records for components like Cloud Native Runtimes (knative) i.e. cnrs, Tanzu Learning Center, Tanzu Application Platform GUI etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* DNS Records for components like Cloud Native Runtimes (knative) i.e. cnrs, Tanzu Learning Center, Tanzu Application Platform GUI, etc.
```

> * A centralized git repository from GitHub, Gitlab or Azure DevOps for the Tanzu Application Platform GUI's software catalogs, along with a token allowing read access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A centralized git repository from GitHub, Gitlab or Azure DevOps for the Tanzu Application Platform GUI's software catalogs, along with a token allowing read access, is set up.
```

> * A Kubernetes workload cluster versions 1.20, 1.21, or 1.22 on Azure Kubernetes Service, Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service, Google Kubernetes Engine, or [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Kubernetes workload cluster versions 1.20, 1.21, or 1.22 exists on Azure Kubernetes Service, Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service, Google Kubernetes Engine, or [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/) providers.
```

Reviewer 2: Can we include Tanzu Kubernetes Grid (TKG) workload clusters in this list?  I know it's a selling point now that TAP can run on latest TKG version (v1.5) clusters, so it would be great to include here.
TKG v1.5 can run Kubernetes 1.20, 1.21, and 1.22 workload clusters.

<!-- /* cSpell:enable */ -->

> * Accept the End User License Agreements (EULAs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have accepted the End User License Agreements (EULAs).
```

> * The Kubernetes CLI, kubectl, v1.20, v1.21 or v1.22, installed and authenticated with administrator rights for your target cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Kubernetes CLI, kubectl, v1.20, v1.21 or v1.22, is installed and authenticated with administrator rights for your target cluster.
```

Additional details concerning prerequisites may be found in Tanzu Application Platform [documentation](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-prerequisites.html).

## Overview of the Deployment Steps

The following provides an overview of the steps necessary to deploy Tanzu Application Platform. Each step links to a detailed information section.

1. [Setup Tanzu Application Platform Build cluster](#tap-build)
1. [Setup Tanzu Application Platform Run cluster](#tap-run)
1. [Setup Tanzu Application Platform View cluster](#tap-ui)
1. [Setup Tanzu Application Platform Iterate cluster](#tap-full)
1. [App Deployment](#tap-sample-app)

## <a id="tap-build"> </a>Setup Tanzu Application Platform Build Cluster

> The Build Cluster is responsible for taking a developer's source code commits and applying a supply chain that will produce a container image and Kubernetes manifests for deploying on a Run Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Build Cluster is responsible for taking a developer's source code commits and applying a supply chain that will produce a container image and Kubernetes manifests for deploying on a Run Cluster.
```

### <a id="tanzu-essential"> </a> Step 1: Install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI

> Provide following user inputs into commands and execute them to install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI on your bootstrap/jumpbox machine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the following user inputs into commands and execute them to install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI on your bootstrap/jumpbox machine. 
```

* `TAP_TAP_WORKLOAD_CONTEXT` - the `kubeconfig` context of the workload cluster
* `TANZU_NET_API_TOKEN` - an API token obtained from https://network.tanzu.vmware.com
* `TANZU_NET_USER` - the Tanzu username
* `TANZU_NET_PASSWORD` - the Tanzu user's password
  
```bash
set -e

export TAP_WORKLOAD_CONTEXT=<workload cluster context>
export TANZU_NET_REGISTRY_ENDPOINT="registry.tanzu.vmware.com"
export TANZU_NET_API_TOKEN=<tanzu refresh token>
export TANZU_NET_USER=<tanzu username>
export TANZU_NET_PASSWORD=<tanzu password>

> export TAP_INSTALL_BUNDLE=registry.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-cluster-essentials/cluster-essentials-bundle@sha256:82dfaf70656b54dcba0d4def85ccae1578ff27054e7533d08320244af7fb0343

Reviewer 3: This variable is not referenced anywhere.

Author: @craigtracey - this is as per the tap documentations refer below steps and link - https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-install-tanzu-cli.html#Install%20Cluster%20Essentials%20for%20VMware%20Tanzu

Configure and run install.sh, which installs kapp-controller and secretgen-controller on your cluster:

export INSTALL_BUNDLE=registry.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-cluster-essentials/cluster-essentials-bundle@sha256:82dfaf70656b54dcba0d4def85ccae1578ff27054e7533d08320244af7fb0343
export INSTALL_REGISTRY_HOSTNAME=registry.tanzu.vmware.com
export INSTALL_REGISTRY_USERNAME=TANZU-NET-USER
export INSTALL_REGISTRY_PASSWORD=TANZU-NET-PASSWORD
cd $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials
./install.sh

> # login to kubernetes workload cluster using cluster config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Log in to kubernetes workload cluster using cluster config.
```

kubectl config use-context "${TAP_WORKLOAD_CONTEXT}"

export token=$(curl -X POST https://network.pivotal.io/api/v2/authentication/access_tokens -d '{"refresh_token":"'${TANZU_NET_API_TOKEN}'"}')
access_token=$(echo ${token} | jq -r .access_token)

curl -i -H "Accept: application/json" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H "Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}" -X GET https://network.pivotal.io/api/v2/authentication

> # install tanzu cluster essentials(linux)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install Cluster Essentials for VMware Tanzu (linux).
```

mkdir $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials
wget https://network.tanzu.vmware.com/api/v2/products/tanzu-cluster-essentials/releases/1011100/product_files/1105818/download --header="Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}" -O $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials/tanzu-cluster-essentials-linux-amd64-1.0.0.tgz
tar -xvf $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials/tanzu-cluster-essentials-linux-amd64-1.0.0.tgz -C $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials

cd $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials
./install.sh

sudo cp $HOME/tanzu-cluster-essentials/kapp /usr/local/bin/kapp

cd $HOME

> # install tanzu cli v(0.10.0) and plug-ins (linux)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install Tanzu CLI v(0.10.0) and plug-ins (linux).
```

mkdir $HOME/tanzu
cd $HOME/tanzu
wget https://network.pivotal.io/api/v2/products/tanzu-application-platform/releases/1030465/product_files/1114447/download --header="Authorization: Bearer ${access_token}" -O $HOME/tanzu/tanzu-framework-linux-amd64.tar
tar -xvf $HOME/tanzu/tanzu-framework-linux-amd64.tar -C $HOME/tanzu

sudo install cli/core/v0.10.0/tanzu-core-linux_amd64 /usr/local/bin/tanzu

# tanzu plug-ins
export TANZU_CLI_NO_INIT=true
tanzu plugin install --local cli all
tanzu plugin list

cd $HOME

# install DEMO-MAGIC for app demo
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paxtonhare/demo-magic/master/demo-magic.sh
sudo mv demo-magic.sh /usr/local/bin/demo-magic.sh
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/demo-magic.sh

sudo apt install pv #required for demo-magic

# install yq package 
sudo wget -qO /usr/local/bin/yq https://github.com/mikefarah/yq/releases/latest/download/yq_linux_amd64
sudo chmod a+x /usr/local/bin/yq
yq --version
```

> ### <a id=tap-package-repo> </a>Step 2: Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### <a id=tap-package-repo> </a>Step 2: Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository.
```

> Execute following commands to add TAP package. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the following commands to add the TAP package. 
```

```bash
set -e

export TAP_NAMESPACE="tap-install"
kubectl create ns "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"

> # tanzu registry secret creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Tanzu registry secret creation
```

tanzu secret registry add tap-registry \
  --username "${TANZU_NET_USER}" --password "${TANZU_NET_PASSWORD}" \
  --server "${TANZU_NET_REGISTRY_ENDPOINT}" \
  --export-to-all-namespaces --yes --namespace "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"

> # tanzu repo add

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Add the Tanzu TAP repo.
```

tanzu package repository add tanzu-tap-repository \
  --url registry.tanzu.vmware.com/tanzu-application-platform/tap-packages:1.0.0 \
  --namespace "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"

tanzu package repository get tanzu-tap-repository --namespace "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"

> # tap available package list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# List all available TAP packages.
```

tanzu package available list --namespace "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"
```

> ### <a id=tap-profile-build> </a>Step 3: Install Tanzu Application Platform build profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### <a id=tap-profile-build> </a>Step 3: Install Tanzu Application Platform build profile.
```

  kp_default_repository_username: "${TAP_REGISTRY_USER}"
  kp_default_repository_password: "${TAP_REGISTRY_PASSWORD}"
  tanzunet_username: "${TANZU_NET_USER}"
  tanzunet_password: "${TANZU_NET_PASSWORD}"
supply_chain: basic
ootb_supply_chain_basic:
  registry:
    server: "${TAP_REGISTRY_SERVER}"
    repository: "supply-chain"
  gitops:
    ssh_secret: ""
  cluster_builder: default
  service_account: default
tap_gui:
  service_type: LoadBalancer
  
metadata_store:
  app_service_type: LoadBalancer

excluded_packages:
  - accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
  - run.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com
  - api-portal.tanzu.vmware.com
  - cnrs.tanzu.vmware.com
  - ootb-delivery-basic.tanzu.vmware.com
  - developer-conventions.tanzu.vmware.com
  - image-policy-webhook.signing.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
  - learningcenter.tanzu.vmware.com
  - workshops.learningcenter.tanzu.vmware.com
  - services-toolkit.tanzu.vmware.com
  - service-bindings.labs.vmware.com
  - tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com

EOF

tanzu package install tap -p tap.tanzu.vmware.com -v 1.0.0 --values-file tap-values-build.yaml -n "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"
tanzu package installed get tap -n "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"

> # check all build cluster package installed succesfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check that all build cluster packages were installed successfully.
```

tanzu package installed list -A
```

> ### <a id=tap-dev-namespace> </a>Step 4: Configure developer namespaces to use installed packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### <a id=tap-dev-namespace> </a>Step 4: Configure developer namespaces to use the installed packages.
```

Execute the following commands to configure a developer namespace:

```bash
set -e

export TAP_DEV_NAMESPACE="default"
export TAP_REGISTRY_SERVER=<registry server uri>
export TAP_REGISTRY_USER=<registry user>
export TAP_REGISTRY_PASSWORD=<registry password>

tanzu secret registry add registry-credentials --server "${TAP_REGISTRY_SERVER}" --username "${TAP_REGISTRY_USER}" --password "${TAP_REGISTRY_PASSWORD}" --namespace "${TAP_DEV_NAMESPACE}"

cat <<EOF | kubectl -n "${TAP_DEV_NAMESPACE}" apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: tap-registry
  annotations:
    secretgen.carvel.dev/image-pull-secret: ""
type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
data:

>   .dockerconfigjson: e30K

Reviewer 3: This does not look like a valid `.dockerconfigjson`. What is going on here?

Author: @craigtracey - check this link of tap for dockerconfigjson config, here you can see the same steps i have provided into tap guide.  https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-install-components.html?hWord=N4IghgNiBcICYHsDGBrApgJyQgdgMwEsBzAKwGdcQBfIA  .  See this section "Set up developer namespaces to use installed packages"

  resources: [imagerepositories]
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [carto.run]
  resources: [deliverables, runnables]
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [kpack.io]
  resources: [images]
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [conventions.apps.tanzu.vmware.com]
  resources: [podintents]
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ['configmaps']
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ['pods']
  verbs: ['list']
- apiGroups: [tekton.dev]
  resources: [taskruns, pipelineruns]
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [tekton.dev]
  resources: [pipelines]
  verbs: ['list']
- apiGroups: [kappctrl.k14s.io]
  resources: [apps]
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [serving.knative.dev]
  resources: ['services']
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [servicebinding.io]
  resources: ['servicebindings']
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [services.apps.tanzu.vmware.com]
  resources: ['resourceclaims']
  verbs: ['*']
- apiGroups: [scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com]
  resources: ['imagescans', 'sourcescans']
  verbs: ['*']

---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: default
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: default
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: default

EOF
```

> ## <a id=tap-run> </a> Setup Tanzu Application Platform Run cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a id=tap-run> </a> Set up the Tanzu Application Platform Run cluster.
```

The Run cluster will utilize the container image and Kubernetes resources created by the Build cluster and run them as defined in the Deliverable object for each application.

> ### Step 1: Install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI.
```

> Please ensure you login into your Kubernetes Run cluster and perform steps outlined in [Install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI](#tanzu-essential). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure you log in to your Kubernetes Run cluster and perform the steps outlined in [Install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI](#tanzu-essential). 
```

> ### Step 2: Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository.
```

> Perform steps outlined in [Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository](#tap-package-repo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform the steps outlined in [Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository](#tap-package-repo)
```

### <a id=tap-profile-run> </a>Step 3: Install Tanzu Application Platform run profile

> Provide following user inputs to set environments variables into commands and execute them to install run profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the following user inputs to set environments variables into commands and execute them to install run profile
```

<!-- /* cSpell:disable */ -->
* `TAP_REGISTRY_SERVER` - uri of the image registry
* `TAP_REGISTRY_USER` - registry user
* `TAP_REGISTRY_PASSWORD` - registry password

> * `TAP_CNRS_DOMAIN` - cnrs app domain (could be sub domain  of main domain like example - run.customer0.io)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `TAP_CNRS_DOMAIN` - The domain of the cnrs app (could be a subdomain of the main domain, for example. 'run.customer0.io)'
```

<!-- /* cSpell:enable */ -->

> **Note** - Contour settings in tap-values-run.yaml must be modified if you are not using AWS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note** - Modify the contour settings in 'tap-values-run.yaml' if AWS is not your 'infrastructure_provider'.
```

    repository: "supply-chain"
  gitops:
    ssh_secret: ""
  cluster_builder: default
  service_account: default
tap_gui:
  service_type: LoadBalancer
  
metadata_store:
  app_service_type: LoadBalancer

contour:
  infrastructure_provider: aws
  envoy:
    service:
      aws:
        LBType: nlb
cnrs:
  domain_name: "${TAP_CNRS_DOMAIN}"

excluded_packages:
 - accelerator.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
 - api-portal.tanzu.vmware.com
 - build.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com
 - buildservice.tanzu.vmware.com
 - controller.conventions.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
 - developer-conventions.tanzu.vmware.com
 - grype.scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
 - learningcenter.tanzu.vmware.com
 - metadata-store.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
 - ootb-supply-chain-basic.tanzu.vmware.com
 - ootb-supply-chain-testing.tanzu.vmware.com
 - ootb-supply-chain-testing-scanning.tanzu.vmware.com
 - scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
 - spring-boot-conventions.tanzu.vmware.com
 - tap-gui.tanzu.vmware.com
 - workshops.learningcenter.tanzu.vmware.com

EOF

tanzu package install tap -p tap.tanzu.vmware.com -v 1.0.0 --values-file tap-values-run.yaml -n "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"
tanzu package installed get tap -n "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"

> # check all build cluster package installed succesfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check that all build cluster packages were installed successfully.
```

tanzu package installed list -A

> # check ingress external ip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check the ingress external IP.
```

kubectl get svc -n tanzu-system-ingress

> # pick external ip from service output  and configure DNS wild card(*) into your DNS server like aws route 53 etc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Pick external IP from service output  and configure DNS wildcard (*) into your DNS server like aws route 53 etc. 
```

# example - *.run.customer0.io ==> <ingress external ip/cname>
```

> ### Step 4: Configure developer namespaces to use installed packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Configure developer namespaces to use installed packages.
```

Perform the steps outlined in [Configure developer namespaces to use installed packages](#tap-dev-namespace)

> Execute the steps 1-4 outlined in [Setup Tanzu Application Platform Run cluster](#tap-run) to build Dev/Test/QA/Prod clusters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute steps 1-4 as outlined in [Setup Tanzu Application Platform Run cluster](#tap-run) to build the Dev/Test/QA/Prod clusters. 
```

> ## <a id=tap-ui> </a> Setup Tanzu Application Platform View cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <a id=tap-ui> </a> Set up the Tanzu Application Platform View cluster.
```

> The View cluster is designed to run the web applications for TAP; specifically Tanzu Learning Center, Tanzu Application Portal GUI, and Tanzu API Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The View cluster is designed to run the web applications for TAP, specifically, Tanzu Learning Center, Tanzu Application Portal GUI, and Tanzu API Portal.
```

> ### Step 1: Install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI.
```

> Please ensure you login into your Kubernetes Run cluster and perform steps outlined in [Install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI](#tanzu-essential). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you login into your Kubernetes Run cluster and perform the steps outlined in [Install Tanzu Cluster Essentials and Tanzu CLI](#tanzu-essential). 
```

### Step 2: Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository 

> Perform steps outlined in [Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository](#tap-package-repo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform the steps outlined in [Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository](#tap-package-repo)
```

### <a id=tap-profile-ui> </a>Step 3: Install Tanzu Application Platform view profile

> Provide following user inputs to set environments variables into commands and execute them to install view profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the following user inputs to set environments variables into commands and execute them to install view profile.
```

* `TAP_REGISTRY_SERVER` - uri of image registry
* `TAP_REGISTRY_USER` - registry user
* `TAP_REGISTRY_PASSWORD` - registry password
* `TAP_GITHUB_TOKEN` - GitHub personal access token
* `TAP_APP_DOMAIN`  - app domain you want to use for tap-gui
* `TAP_GIT_CATALOG_URL` - git catalog url. Refer this as an [example](https://github.com/sendjainabhi/tap/blob/main/catalog-info.yaml) 
* `TAP_RUN_CLUSTER_NAME` - Run cluster name
* `TAP_RUN_CLUSTER_API` - Run cluster Kubernetes API endpoint. AWS eks Example `https://xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx.gr7.us-east-2.eks.amazonaws.com`
* `TAP_RUN_CLUSTER_TOKEN` - Run cluster Kubernetes service account token. Use below kubectl command to get `TAP_RUN_CLUSTER_TOKEN`

 See the [full profile](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-install.html#full-profile) documentation for further details. 

 **Notes** - 
  1. `TAP_APP_DOMAIN` could be a top-level domain or subdomain.

>   1. `TAP_RUN_CLUSTER_TOKEN` can be obtained by executing the following command on you Run cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. `TAP_RUN_CLUSTER_TOKEN` can be obtained by executing the following command on your Run cluster:
```

server:
  service_type: "LoadBalancer"
  watched_namespace: "accelerator-system"
samples:
  include: true

excluded_packages:
  - cnrs.tanzu.vmware.com
  - ootb-delivery-basic.tanzu.vmware.com
  - developer-conventions.tanzu.vmware.com
  - image-policy-webhook.signing.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
  - services-toolkit.tanzu.vmware.com
  - service-bindings.labs.vmware.com
  - build.appliveview.tanzu.vmware.com
  - buildservice.tanzu.vmware.com
  - controller.conventions.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
  - developer-conventions.tanzu.vmware.com
  - grype.scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
  - metadata-store.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
  - ootb-supply-chain-basic.tanzu.vmware.com
  - ootb-supply-chain-testing.tanzu.vmware.com
  - ootb-supply-chain-testing-scanning.tanzu.vmware.com
  - scanning.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
  - spring-boot-conventions.tanzu.vmware.com
  - ootb-templates.tanzu.vmware.com
  - tekton.tanzu.vmware.com
  - image-policy-webhook.signing.apps.tanzu.vmware.com
  - cartographer.tanzu.vmware.com

EOF

tanzu package install tap -p tap.tanzu.vmware.com -v 1.0.0 --values-file tap-values-ui.yaml -n "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"
tanzu package installed get tap -n "${TAP_NAMESPACE}"

> # ensure all build cluster packages are installed succesfully

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Ensure that all build cluster packages are installed successfully.
```

tanzu package installed list -A

kubectl get svc -n tanzu-system-ingress

> # pick an external ip from service output and configure DNS wildcard records 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Pick an external IP address from service output and configure the DNS wildcard records.
```

# example - *.ui.customer0.io ==> <ingress external ip/cname>
```

> ### Step 4: Set up developer namespaces to use installed packages 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4: Set up developer namespaces to use the installed packages.
```

Perform the steps outlined in [Configure developer namespaces to use installed packages](#tap-dev-namespace)

> ### Deploy Sample application 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy the Sample application. 
```

See the steps to deploy and test the [sample application](#tap-sample-app). You can refer to [Deploy Application documentation](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-getting-started.html) for further details.

## <a id=tap-full> </a> Setup Tanzu Application Platform Iterate cluster

The Iterate cluster is for "inner loop" development iteration where developers are connecting via their IDE to rapidly iterate on new software features

> ### Step 1: Install tanzu cluster essentials and tanzu cli - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Install tanzu cluster essentials and tanzu cli.
```

> Please ensure you login into Kubernetes View cluster and perform steps of [Install tanzu cluster essentials and tanzu cli](#tanzu-essential). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that you log in to Kubernetes View cluster and perform the steps in [Install tanzu cluster essentials and tanzu cli](#tanzu-essential). 
```

> ### Step 2: Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository - 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository.
```

> Perform steps of [Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository](#tap-package-repo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perform the steps in [Add the Tanzu Application Platform package repository](#tap-package-repo)
```

> ### <a id=tap-profile-full> </a>Step 3: Install Tanzu Application Platform Iterate profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### <a id=tap-profile-full> </a>Step 3: Install the Tanzu Application Platform Iterate profile.
```

> Provide following user inputs to set environments variables into commands and execute them to install Iterate profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the following user inputs to set environments variables into commands and execute them to install Iterate profile.
```

    carto.run/cluster-supply-chain-name: source-to-url
    carto.run/cluster-template-name: deliverable-template
    carto.run/resource-name: deliverable
    carto.run/template-kind: ClusterTemplate
    carto.run/workload-name: tap-demo
    carto.run/workload-namespace: default
  name: tap-demo
  namespace: default
spec:
  source:
    image: tapdemo2.azurecr.io/supply-chain/tap-demo-default-bundle:83c468d4-4fd0-4f3b-9e57-9cdfe57e730a

##################################################################

 # login to kubernetes workload run cluster 
kubectl config get-contexts
kubectl config use-context <cluster config name>  

# apply app-delivery into run cluster 

kubectl apply -f app-delivery.yaml

# check app status
kubectl get deliverables "${TAP_APP_NAME}"

# get app url 
kubectl get all -A | grep route.serving.knative

# copy app url and paste into browser to see the sample app

```

### Register Entity into tap-gui 
* open tap-gui url and click on **Register Entity** button and provide catalog-info.yaml file url of your app. See [Example](https://github.com/sample-accelerators/tanzu-java-web-app/blob/main/catalog/catalog-info.yaml)

> * Make sure you have setup 'app.kubernetes.io/part-of=**app name** correctly into your app catalog-info.yaml. and it should match with your app name. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make sure you have set up 'app.kubernetes.io/part-of=**app name** correctly into your app catalog-info.yaml and that it matches your app name. 
```

**Example `'backstage.io/kubernetes-label-selector': 'app.kubernetes.io/part-of=tap-demo2'`**

### Troubleshooting Tanzu Application Platform

In the event of failure, you may utilize the following command to obtain failure details:
`kubectl get packageinstall/<package> -n tap-install -o yaml`. 

Refer to [Troubleshooting Tanzu Application Platform Tips](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-troubleshooting.html) for additional details.

### Service Bindings for Kubernetes

> You may reference [Service Bindings for Kubernetes](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-service-bindings-about.html) for additional details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Service Bindings for Kubernetes](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-service-bindings-about.html) for additional details.
```

### Tanzu Application Platform GUI auth provider

> You may reference the [auth provider documentation](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-tap-gui-auth.html) for additional details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [auth provider documentation](https://docs.vmware.com/en/Tanzu-Application-Platform/1.0/tap/GUID-tap-gui-auth.html) for additional details.
```
